Getting_and_Cleaning_Data/CodeBook.md, before:

---
title: "CodeBook.md"
output: html_document
---

Dataset
=======

This dataset is a subset of original dataset package obtained from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip. 

It is concatination of training and testing datasets (original files test/X_test.txt and train/X_train.txt). Original names of columns were replaced by the feature names provided in original file features.txt.

Features from original dataset which are not in the scope of our interest were omitted in this dataset.

Feature Explanation 
===================

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

- tBodyAcc-XYZ
- tGravityAcc-XYZ
- tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
- tBodyGyro-XYZ
- tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
- tBodyAccMag
- tGravityAccMag
- tBodyAccJerkMag
- tBodyGyroMag
- tBodyGyroJerkMag
- fBodyAcc-XYZ
- fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
- fBodyGyro-XYZ
- fBodyAccMag
- fBodyAccJerkMag
- fBodyGyroMag
- fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

- mean(): Mean value
- std(): Standard deviation

Complete list of features 
=========================

- tBodyAcc-mean()-X
- tBodyAcc-mean()-Y
- tBodyAcc-mean()-Z           
- tBodyAcc-std()-X
- tBodyAcc-std()-Y            
- tBodyAcc-std()-Z            
- tGravityAcc-mean()-X        
- tGravityAcc-mean()-Y
- tGravityAcc-mean()-Z        
- tGravityAcc-std()-X         
- tGravityAcc-std()-Y         
- tGravityAcc-std()-Z
- tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X       
- tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y       
- tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z       
- tBodyAccJerk-std()-X       
- tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y        
- tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z        
- tBodyGyro-mean()-X          
- tBodyGyro-mean()-Y         
- tBodyGyro-mean()-Z          
- tBodyGyro-std()-X           
- tBodyGyro-std()-Y           
- tBodyGyro-std()-Z          
- tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X      
- tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y      
- tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z      
- tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X      
- tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y       
- tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z       
- tBodyAccMag-mean()          
- tBodyAccMag-std()          
- tGravityAccMag-mean()       
- tGravityAccMag-std()        
- tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()      
- tBodyAccJerkMag-std()      
- tBodyGyroMag-mean()         
- tBodyGyroMag-std()          
- tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()
- tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()     
- fBodyAcc-mean()-X           
- fBodyAcc-mean()-Y           
- fBodyAcc-mean()-Z           
- fBodyAcc-std()-X           
- fBodyAcc-std()-Y            
- fBodyAcc-std()-Z            
- fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X       
- fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y      
- fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z       
- fBodyAccJerk-std()-X        
- fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y        
- fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z       
- fBodyGyro-mean()-X          
- fBodyGyro-mean()-Y          
- fBodyGyro-mean()-Z          
- fBodyGyro-std()-X        
- fBodyGyro-std()-Y           
- fBodyGyro-std()-Z           
- fBodyAccMag-mean()          
- fBodyAccMag-std()          
- fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()  
- fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()   
- fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()     
- fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()     
- fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean() 
- fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()

Commit message:

Added reasoning for not including some features

Getting_and_Cleaning_Data/CodeBook.md, after:

---
title: "CodeBook.md"
output: html_document
---

Dataset
=======

This dataset is a subset of original dataset package obtained from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip. 

It is concatination of training and testing datasets (original files test/X_test.txt and train/X_train.txt). Original names of columns were replaced by the feature names provided in original file features.txt.

Features from original dataset which are not in the scope of our interest were omitted in this dataset.

Feature Explanation 
===================

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

- tBodyAcc-XYZ
- tGravityAcc-XYZ
- tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
- tBodyGyro-XYZ
- tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
- tBodyAccMag
- tGravityAccMag
- tBodyAccJerkMag
- tBodyGyroMag
- tBodyGyroJerkMag
- fBodyAcc-XYZ
- fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
- fBodyGyro-XYZ
- fBodyAccMag
- fBodyAccJerkMag
- fBodyGyroMag
- fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

- mean(): Mean value
- std(): Standard deviation

Features gravityMean, tBodyAccMean, tBodyAccJerkMean, tBodyGyroMean, tBodyGyroJerkMean from original dataset are intentionally not included to the list of selected features because they are stand alone features in terms of original dataset, i.e. their underlying data was not included into original dataset. In the current activity we were interested only in mean and standard deviation of feature groups included into original dataset. 

Complete list of features 
=========================

- tBodyAcc-mean()-X
- tBodyAcc-mean()-Y
- tBodyAcc-mean()-Z           
- tBodyAcc-std()-X
- tBodyAcc-std()-Y            
- tBodyAcc-std()-Z            
- tGravityAcc-mean()-X        
- tGravityAcc-mean()-Y
- tGravityAcc-mean()-Z        
- tGravityAcc-std()-X         
- tGravityAcc-std()-Y         
- tGravityAcc-std()-Z
- tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X       
- tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y       
- tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z       
- tBodyAccJerk-std()-X       
- tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y        
- tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z        
- tBodyGyro-mean()-X          
- tBodyGyro-mean()-Y         
- tBodyGyro-mean()-Z          
- tBodyGyro-std()-X           
- tBodyGyro-std()-Y           
- tBodyGyro-std()-Z          
- tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X      
- tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y      
- tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z      
- tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X      
- tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y       
- tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z       
- tBodyAccMag-mean()          
- tBodyAccMag-std()          
- tGravityAccMag-mean()       
- tGravityAccMag-std()        
- tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()      
- tBodyAccJerkMag-std()      
- tBodyGyroMag-mean()         
- tBodyGyroMag-std()          
- tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()
- tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()     
- fBodyAcc-mean()-X           
- fBodyAcc-mean()-Y           
- fBodyAcc-mean()-Z           
- fBodyAcc-std()-X           
- fBodyAcc-std()-Y            
- fBodyAcc-std()-Z            
- fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X       
- fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y      
- fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z       
- fBodyAccJerk-std()-X        
- fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y        
- fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z       
- fBodyGyro-mean()-X          
- fBodyGyro-mean()-Y          
- fBodyGyro-mean()-Z          
- fBodyGyro-std()-X        
- fBodyGyro-std()-Y           
- fBodyGyro-std()-Z           
- fBodyAccMag-mean()          
- fBodyAccMag-std()          
- fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()  
- fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()   
- fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()     
- fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()     
- fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean() 
- fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()
